well un back report has issued a dire
warning for Gaza half of gazans are
experiencing catastrophic hunger and
famine and famine is imminent unless
there's urgent intervention now the
warning comes as Israel faces increasing
pressure from its allies to allow more
Aid into the
territory huge crowds of gazin gathered
to receive Aid at this shelter run by
the United Nations Agency for
Palestinian refugees amid an increasing
hunger crisis in the Gaza Strip where
AID has only been trickling in since the
beginning of the
war people are dying we are asking the
Arab people to press for a ceasefire in
Gaza we are exhausted and
dying the United Nations has published
its latest report warning that Gaza is
on the brink of famine the UN
humanitarian coordinator in Gaza says
that he's working with Israel to open up
more land routes for a shipments as soon
as the goods come in the 200 trucks a
day or whatever the case may be it's not
enough to satisfy the the numbers that
we have to address and so as soon as
goods come in they don't get stored
anywhere very for very long unless we
can put significant Supply increases
into those areas those people who are at
catastrophic levels of uh malnutrition
or food insecurity will uh face real
serious problems the eu's top Diplomat
Joseph Burell believes Israel is using
famine as a weapon of war in Gaza we are
no longer on the brink of
famine we are in a state of amine
affecting thousand of
people we cannot stand by and watch
Palestinian
star what are we going to
do because this is this forine is not a
natural
disaster it's not a flood it's not a
earthquake is entirely
man-made by
whom that's there to say it by
whom while an aid shipment arrived in
Gaza from Cyprus and some countries of
sponsored
airdrops Aid agencies say that this is
nowhere near enough and cannot replace
the aid delivered via land
Crossings where dozens of humanitarian
Aid trucks await permission to reach
people in
Gaza well US President Joe Biden has
asked Israel to send a delegation to
Washington to discuss Israel's plans for
a ground offensive on Rafa in southern
Gaza Biden has warned prime minister
Benyamin Netanyahu that an assault on
Rafa would be a mistake roughly 1.5
million people are Sheltering there
here's US National Security adviser Jake
Sullivan our position is that Hamas
should not be allowed to save Haven in
Rafa or anywhere else but a major ground
operation there would be a mistake it
would lead to more innocent civilian
deaths worsen the already dire
humanitarian crisis deepen the Anarchy
in Gaza and further isolate Israel
internationally more importantly the key
goals Israel wants to achieve in Rafa
can be done by other means on the call
today President Biden asked the prime
minister to send a senior inter agency
team composed of military intelligence
and humanitarian officials
to Washington in the coming days to hear
us concerns about Israel's current Rafa
planning and to lay out an alternative
approach that would Target key Hamas
elements in Rafa and secure the Egypt
Gaza border without a major ground
Invasion I'd like to welcome Gerald
firestein he's a former US ambassador
and once served as Deputy Consul General
in Jerusalem he is senior vice president
of the Middle East Institute Ambassador
welcome to DW
Joe Biden has asked Benjamin Netanyahu
to send officials to Washington over his
plans for a ground offensive in Rafa at
the same time that Netanyahu really
appears to be doubling down on these
plans how much pressure do you expect
the US to put on Netanyahu
here uh it's a pleasure to be with you
this evening and I I think that that
clearly the administration is extremely
concerned about the potential uh
humanitarian catastrophe if the Israelis
follow through on their threats to go in
uh to Rafa they've been signaling
consistently for weeks now uh that they
don't believe that the Israelis have put
in place uh the means to protect the
civilian population there uh and to uh
to Target Hamas operatives that are
still in the Rafa area uh and until they
uh do that until there's some clear
understanding between Washington and
Jerusalem about how to go forward I
think that we're going to see the
administration continuing uh to
emphasize the risks uh and there is an
increasing view particularly among uh
Democratic members of Congress uh that
uh that the U uh that the US
Administration needs to be more explicit
in telling Israel to stand back let's
talk about that the US is pushing for
what's being described as an alternative
approach and you're saying it will
probably be more explicit what do you
think this alternative approach could
mean well I think that as as we heard
from uh from Jake Sullivan uh the
alternative approach would be not a
major ground offensive
interfa uh but something more targeted
more uh more precise in trying to
identify uh where Hamas leadership may
be hiding uh and to uh and to use other
kinds of military means to achieve those
targets uh without threatening the
security of the civilian population
Ambassador as someone with many years of
diplomatic experience particularly in
the Middle East I'd like to ask you what
do you make of where things stand right
now in this
conflict well I think that uh that
increasingly there is a great deal of
frustration over the failure of
diplomacy to achieve even a limited
ceasefire uh we uh have seen that
there's going to be another Israeli
delegation going uh to continue the the
negotiations uh but but the
administration I think is very
frustrated that they haven't been able
to uh impress on either the Israelis or
Hamas uh the need to take steps now uh
that would address the humanitarian
crisis and bring this fighting to a Hal
and I think that again as the uh the
days of the weeks go by the pressure on
the Biden Administration to do something
more uh to bring this conflict to an end
is only going to
increase that was former US ambassador
Gerald firin Ambassador thank you very
much for your time and your insights
today it's a pleasure